So, this visualization gives you two different
ways to analyze the search results of a Google
Scholar query. You can analyze the papers
based on content or based on context.
So, here we can see a sample query:
"epigenetic profiling in single cells",
and here are the results from Google
Scholar. So, this is the content approach,
and it is a scatter plot that allows you to select
a quality of the paper and analyze each of the
papers based on that quality and see if there's
any outliers - in the case here there is an
outlier - and based on the results you can click
on - you can hover to see some information about
the paper, and then you can click to actually get
the abstract and read more and figure out if it's
something you want to actually read the entire
paper of. If you do, you can just copy the results
from last selected paper. This also allows you to
notice that there's trends in results, such as the
citations per year and the publication year having
a correlation, or the citations per year and the
number of citations would, of course, have a
pretty distinct correlation. Now for context,
this network graph puts all the papers in a
network, where they're connected based on whether
or not they cite each other. You can see here
that there's an arrow denoting which paper cites
the other and so you can see that this paper is
actually pretty central to the network, cited by
13 other papers, and so then you can click on
that paper and see more information about it.
Noticeably, when you select a paper here,
it's highlighted in orange. That same paper
will also be highlighted in orange up here,
so you can then look at more content related
results by clicking up above. Those are the
two major functions of the visualization. We
think that it can help you when researching a new
subject and selecting papers for further research.